DiamondClean

2
1
7
8
3
4
5
6
9
11
10
1

English  6
English6
Introduction
Congratulations on your purchase and welcome 
to Philips! To fully benefit from the support that 
Philips offers, register your product at  
www.philips.com/welcome. 
IMPORTANT 
SAFEGUARDS
Warning: READ ALL INSTRUCTIONS 
BEFORE USE
When using electrical products, especially when 
children are present, basic safety precautions 
should always be followed, including the following:
DANGERS
To reduce the risk of electrocution:
1  Always place and store the charger at a safe 
distance from water.
2  Do not reach for a charger that has fallen into 
water. Unplug immediately.
3  Never use a charger with a damaged cord or 
plug.
WARNINGS
To reduce the risk of burns, electrocution, fire or 
physical injury:
1  Do not use attachments other than those 
recommended by the manufacturer.
English 7
2  Do not plug the adapter into an outlet with a 
voltage other than specified on the bottom 
of the adapter. This product is designed to 
operate within a range of 100 to 240 volts. 
Voltage converters do not warrant voltage 
compatibility.
3  Never force the adapter into an outlet; if the 
adapter does not easily fit into the outlet, 
discontinue use.
4  Discontinue use if the product appears 
damaged in any way (brush head, handle, 
charger or adapter).
5  The mains cord cannot be replaced. If the 
mains cord is damaged, discard the charger.
6 Keep the cord away from heated surfaces.
7 Do not use the adapter outdoors.
8  This product contains no user-serviceable 
parts. Refer to ‘Warranty and support’ if the 
product no longer works properly or needs 
repair.
9  Use this product only for its intended 
use as described in this document or as 
recommended by your dental professional.
10  This product is not intended for use by 
persons (including children) with reduced 
physical, sensory, or mental capabilities, or 
lack of experience and knowledge, unless they 
have been given supervision or instruction 
concerning use of the appliance by a person 
responsible for their safety.
11  Children should be supervised to ensure that 
they do not play with the product.
English8
12  Philips Sonicare is a personal care device and 
is not intended for use on multiple patients in a 
dental office or institution.
13  Use UL Listed computer, USB Hub or USB 
duplex receptacle when charging the 
toothbrush handle in the travel case.
14  When using a computer to recharge the 
toothbrush handle, the computer should be 
located away from sources of water (i.e. sink or 
tub) so as to avoid electrical shock.
15  In order to effectively charge your Philips 
Sonicare do not place your charger base on a 
magnetic metal surface.
16  The adapter is certified according to the 
relevant safety standard UL1310.
17  The adapter is not intended to be repaired 
by service personnel in case of failure or 
component defect (unit can be thrown away).
18  For connection to a supply not in the U.S.A., use 
an adapter of the proper configuration for the 
power outlet.
MEDICAL WARNINGS
1  Consult your dental professional before you 
use this product if you have had oral or gum 
surgery in the previous 2 months.
2  Contact your dental professional if excessive 
bleeding occurs after using this product or 
bleeding continues to occur after 1 week of use.
3  Discontinue use of this product and contact 
a physician/dentist if discomfort or pain is 
experienced.
English 9
4  This product complies with the safety standards 
for electromagnetic devices. If you have a 
pacemaker or other implanted device, contact 
your physician or the device manufacturer prior 
to use.
5  Consult your physician if you have other 
medical concerns.
 Electromagnetic fields (EMF)
This Philips device complies with all applicable 
standards and regulations regarding exposure to 
electromagnetic fields.
SAVE THESE 
INSTRUCTIONS
Your Philips Sonicare (Fig. 1)
1 Hygienic travel cap
2 Brush head with unique identifier
3 Handle with ergonomic shape
4 Recessed power on/off button
5 Hidden brushing mode display
6 Charge indicator
7 Charging glass (select models)
8 Charging base
9 Charging travel case
10 USB wall adapter
11 USB cord
Note: The content of the box may vary based on 
the model purchased.
English10
Getting started
Attaching the brush head
1  Align the brush head so the bristles point in the 
same direction as the front of the handle.
2  Firmly press the brush head down onto the 
metal shaft until it stops.
Note: Philips Sonicare brush heads are imprinted 
with icons to easily identify your brush head.
Note: It is normal to see a slight gap between the 
brush head and the handle.
Charging your Philips Sonicare
1 Plug the charger into an electrical outlet.
2  Place charging glass (select models) on top of 
the charging base and place handle in glass.
 - The charge indicator flashes green until fully 
charged.
 - Rapid yellow flashing indicates charge is 
extremely low (fewer than 3 uses left).
Note: It takes at least 24 hours to fully charge  
the battery.
This charger is designed to properly charge 
only one handle at a time. This charger is not 
compatible with other models of Sonicare.
English 11
Using your Philips Sonicare
Brushing instructions
1 Wet the bristles.
2  Apply a small amount of toothpaste on  
the bristles.
3  Place the toothbrush bristles against the teeth 
at a slight angle (45 degrees), pressing firmly to 
make the bristles reach the gumline or slightly 
beneath the gumline.
Note: Keep the center of the brush in contact 
with the teeth at all times.
4  Press the power on/off and mode button to 
turn on your Philips Sonicare.
5  Gently keep the bristles placed on the teeth 
and in the gumline. Brush your teeth with small 
back and forth motion so the bristles reach 
between the teeth.
Note: The bristles should slightly flare.  
Do not scrub.
English12
6  To clean the inside surfaces of the front teeth, 
tilt the brush handle semi-upright and make 
several vertical overlapping brushing strokes on 
each tooth.
7  Begin brushing in section 1 (outside top teeth) 
and brush for 30 seconds (45 seconds in 
Deep Clean mode) before moving to section 2 
(inside top teeth). Continue brushing in section 3 
(outside bottom teeth) and brush for 30 seconds 
(45 seconds in Deep Clean mode) before 
moving to section 4 (inside bottom teeth).
Note: To make sure you brush evenly 
throughout the mouth, divide your mouth into  
4 sections using the Quadpacer feature  
(see chapter ‘Features’).
Note: After you have completed the brushing 
cycle, you can spend additional time brushing 
the chewing surfaces of your teeth and areas 
where staining occurs. You can also brush your 
tongue, with the toothbrush turned on or off,  
as you prefer.
Your Philips Sonicare is safe to use on:
 - Braces (brush heads wear out sooner when 
used on braces).
 - Dental restorations (fillings, crowns, veneers).
Brushing modes
1  To toggle through modes press the on/off 
button twice in less than 5 seconds.
2  To turn off your Philips Sonicare press the  
on/off button again after 5 seconds.
Your Philips Sonicare comes with the Clean mode 
activated.
1
2
4
3
English 13
Note: When the Philips Sonicare is used in clinical 
studies, it must be used in the default 2-minute 
Clean mode or in the Deep Clean mode with Easy 
Start turned off.
Clean mode
The ultimate in plaque removal (default mode). 
Clean mode lasts for 2 minutes and includes four 
30 second Quadpacer intervals.
White mode
2 minutes to remove surface stains and  
30 seconds to brighten and polish your front teeth.
Sensitive mode
Extra gentle 2 minute mode for sensitive teeth  
and gums.
Gum Care mode
Complete whole mouth cleaning (2 minutes)  
plus gentle cleaning for problem areas and along 
the gumline (1 minute).
Deep Clean mode
Provides an invigorating 3 minutes of alternating 
cleaning and massaging to deliver an exceptionally 
clean experience.
Features
Quadpacer
The Quadpacer is an interval timer that has a 
short beep and pause to remind you to brush 
the 4 sections of your mouth. Depending on the 
brushing mode you have selected, the Quadpacer 
beeps at different intervals during the brushing 
cycle. The Quadpacer works in all 5 modes.
1
2
4
3
English14
Smartimer
The Smartimer indicates that your brushing cycle 
is complete by automatically turning off the 
toothbrush at the end of the brushing cycle.
Dental professionals recommend brushing no less 
than 2 minutes twice a day.
Easy-start
The Easy-start feature gently increases the power 
over the first 14 brushings to help you get used 
to the brushing with the Philips Sonicare. The 
Easy-start feature only works in Clean and White 
modes. This Philips Sonicare model comes with 
the Easy-start feature activated.
Activating or deactivating the Easy-start 
feature
1 Place the handle in the plugged-in charger.
To activate Easy-start:
Press and hold the power on/off for 2 seconds. 
You hear 2 beeps to indicate that the Easy-start 
feature has been activated.
To deactivate Easy-start:
Press and hold the power on/off for 2 seconds. 
You hear 1 beep to indicate that the Easy-start 
feature has been deactivated.
Note: Using the Easy-start feature beyond the 
initial ramp-up period is not recommended and 
reduces Philips Sonicare effectiveness in removing 
plaque.
Note: Each of the first 14 brushings must be at least 
1 minute in length to properly move through the 
Easy-start ramp-up cycle.
English 15
Traveling with your Philips Sonicare
Charging via wall outlet
1 Place the handle in the charging travel case.
2  Plug the USB cord into the wall adapter 
provided and plug into an electrical outlet.
 - The charge indicator flashes green until fully 
charged.
Charging via USB
1  Remove the USB cord from the travel plug and 
insert the USB plug into an USB port.
 - Only use Philips USB wall adapter and USB 
cable provided.
Use Only UL Listed devices as an alternate method 
of charging the toothbrush handle in the travel 
case (i.e. UL Listed Computer, USB Hub).  
The charger is not compatible with previous 
models of Philips Sonicare.
Cleaning
Note: Do not clean the brush head, handle, 
charging base or USB travel case in the 
dishwasher. The glass is dishwasher safe.
Toothbrush handle
1  Remove the brush head and rinse the metal 
shaft area with warm water. Make sure you 
remove any residual toothpaste.
Note: Do not push on the rubber seal on the 
metal shaft with sharp objects, as this may 
cause damage.
2  Wipe the entire surface of the handle with a 
damp cloth.
Note: Do not use isopropyl rubbing alcohol, 
vinegar or bleach to clean handle as this may 
cause discoloration.
English16
Brush head
1  Rinse the brush head and bristles after  
each use.
2  Remove the brush head from the handle and 
rinse the brush head connection with warm 
water at least once a week.
Charging base
Use a damp cloth to wipe the surface of the 
charging base. Make sure you remove any 
toothpaste or other residue from the surfaces.
Storage
If you are not going to use your Philips Sonicare 
for an extended period of time, unplug the charger 
from the electrical outlet, clean it and store it in a 
cool and dry place away from direct sunlight.
Replacement
Brush head
Replace Philips Sonicare brush heads every  
3 months to achieve optimal results. Use only 
Philips Sonicare replacement brush heads.
Disposal
This appliance contains a rechargeable battery 
which must be disposed of properly. Contact your 
local town or city officials for battery disposal 
information. You can also call 1-800-8-BATTERY 
or visit www.rbrc.com for battery drop-off locations.
For assistance, visit our website www.philips.com/
support or call 1-800-243-3050 toll free.
English 17
Removing the rechargeable battery
Warning: Only remove the rechargeable battery 
when you discard the appliance. Make sure the 
battery is completely empty when you remove it.
To remove the rechargeable battery, you need 
a towel or cloth, a hammer and a flat-head 
(standard) screwdriver. Observe basic safety 
precautions when you follow the procedure 
outlined below. Be sure to protect your eyes, 
hands, fingers, and the surface on which you work.
1  To deplete the rechargeable battery of any 
charge, remove the handle from the charger, 
turn on the Philips Sonicare and let it run until it 
stops. Repeat this step until you can no longer 
turn on the Philips Sonicare.
2  Remove and discard the brush head. Cover the 
entire handle with a towel or cloth.
3  Hold the top of the handle with one hand and 
strike the handle housing 0.5 inch above the 
bottom end. Strike firmly with a hammer on all 
4 sides to eject the end cap.
Note: You may have to hit on the end several 
times to break the internal snap connections.
4  Remove the end cap from the toothbrush 
handle. If the end cap does not release easily 
from the housing, repeat step 3 until the end 
cap is released.
1
2
English18
5  Holding the handle upside down, press the 
shaft down on a hard surface. If the internal 
components do not easily release from 
the housing, repeat step 3 until the internal 
components are released.
6 Remove the rubber battery cover.
7  Wedge the screwdriver between the battery 
and the black frame at the bottom of the 
internal components. Then pry the screwdriver 
away from the battery to break the bottom of 
the black frame.
8  Insert the screwdriver between the bottom of 
the battery and the black frame to break the 
metal tab connecting the battery to the green 
printed circuit board. This will release the 
bottom end of the battery from the frame.
9  Grab the battery and pull it away from the 
internal components to break the second metal 
battery tab.
Caution: Be aware of the sharp edges of the 
battery tabs so as to avoid injury to your 
fingers.
English 19
10  Cover the battery contacts with tape to 
prevent any electrical short from residual 
battery charge. The rechargeable battery can 
now be recycled and the rest of the product 
discarded appropriately.
Warranty and support
Philips warrants its products for two years after the 
date of purchase. Defects due to faulty materials 
and workmanship will be repaired or replaced at 
Philips’ expense provided that convincing proof 
of purchase in the qualifying period is provided. 
Philips recommends use of genuine Sonicare 
brush heads for optimal performance. Use of 
other brush heads may damage your Sonicare 
toothbrush and limit your warranty protection. 
Contact our Consumer Care Center at  
1-800-682-7664 (North America), outside North 
America contact your local Philips Consumer Care 
Center. Internet information: www.sonicare.com 
(North America) or www.philips.com/support 
(outside North America).
WARRANTY EXCLUSIONS
What is not covered under warranty:
 - Brush heads.
 - Damage caused by use of unauthorized 
replacement parts or unauthorized brush heads.
 - Damage caused by misuse, abuse, neglect, 
alterations or unauthorized repair.
 - Normal wear and tear, including chips, 
scratches, abrasions, discoloration or fading.
English20
IMPLIED WARRANTIES
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SHALL 
BE LIMITED TO THE DURATION OF THE EXPRESS 
WARRANTIES SET FORTH ABOVE. IN SOME 
STATES LIMITATIONS ON DURATION OF IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES DO NOT APPLY.
LIMITATION OF REMEDIES
IN NO EVENT SHALL PHILIPS OR ANY OF ITS 
AFFILIATED OR SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES BASED UPON 
BREACH OF WARRANTY, BREACH OF CONTRACT, 
NEGLIGENCE, TORT, OR ANY OTHER LEGAL 
THEORY. SUCH DAMAGES INCLUDE, WITHOUT 
LIMITATION, LOSS OF SAVINGS OR REVENUE; 
LOSS OF PROFIT; LOSS OF USE; THE CLAIMS OF 
THIRD PARTIES INCLUDING, WITHOUT 
LIMITATION, DENTISTS AND DENTAL HYGIENISTS; 
AND COST OF ANY SUBSTITUTE EQUIPMENT OR 
SERVICES. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE 
EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.

4235.021.1516.1
>75% recycled paper
www.philips.com/Sonicare
©2016 Koninklijke Philips N.V. (KPNV). All rights reserved.
Philips and the Philips shield are trademarks of KPNV.  
Sonicare and the Sonicare logo are trademarks  
of Philips Oral Healthcare, LLC and/or KPNV.

