Philips Sonicare 
3 Series




Introduction
Congratulations on your purchase and welcome to Philips! To fully  
benefit from the support that Philips offers, register your product at 
www.philips.com/welcome. 



Important
Read this user manual carefully before you use the 
appliance and save it for future reference.



Danger
 - Keep the charger away from water. Do not place 
or store it over or near water contained in a 
bathtub, washbasin, sink etc. Do not immerse the 
charger in water or any other liquid. After cleaning, 
make sure the charger is completely dry before 
you connect it to the mains.



Warning
 - The mains cord cannot be replaced. If the mains 
cord is damaged, discard the charger.
 - Always have the charger replaced with one of  
the original type in order to avoid a hazard.
 - Do not use the charger outdoors or near  
heated surfaces. 
 - If the appliance is damaged in any way (brush 
head, toothbrush handle or charger), stop using it. 
This appliance contains no serviceable parts. If the 
appliance is damaged, contact the Consumer Care 
Centre in your country (see chapter ‘Guarantee 
and support’).



ENGLISH
 - This appliance can be used by children aged 
from 8 years and above and by persons with 
reduced physical, sensory or mental capabilities 
or lack of experience and knowledge if they 
have been given supervision or instruction 
concerning use of the appliance in a safe way 
and if they understand the hazards involved.  
Children shall not play with the appliance. 
Cleaning and user maintenance shall not be 
made by children unless they are older than  
8 and supervised.



Caution
 - Do not clean the brush head, the handle or the 
charger in the dishwasher.
 - If you have had oral or gum surgery in the 
previous 2 months, consult your dentist before 
you use the toothbrush.
 - Consult your dentist if excessive bleeding occurs 
after using this toothbrush or if bleeding continues 
to occur after 1 week of use.  
Also consult your dentist if you experience 
discomfort or pain when you use the Sonicare.
 - The Sonicare toothbrush complies with the  
safety standards for electromagnetic devices.  
If you have a pacemaker or other implanted 
device, contact your physician or the device 
manufacturer of the implanted device prior to use.
 - If you have medical concerns, consult your doctor 
before you use the Sonicare.
 - This appliance has only been designed for cleaning 
teeth, gums and tongue. Do not use it for any 
other purpose. Stop using the appliance and 
contact your doctor if you experience any 
discomfort or pain.
 - The Sonicare toothbrush is a personal care device 
and is not intended for use on multiple patients in  
a dental practice or institution.
 - Stop using a brush head with crushed or bent 
bristles. Replace the brush head every 3 months 
or sooner if signs of wear appear. Do not use 
other brush heads than the ones recommended 
by the manufacturer.
 - If your toothpaste contains peroxide, baking soda 
or bicarbonate (common in whitening toothpastes), 
thoroughly clean the brush head with soap and 
water after each use. This prevents possible 
cracking of the plastic.



Electromagnetic fields (EMF)
This Philips appliance complies with all applicable standards and 
regulations regarding exposure to electromagnetic fields.



General description (Fig. 1)
 1  Hygienic travel cap
 2 	Brush	head	with	unique	identifier
 3  Handle
 4  Power on/off button
 5  Intensity level LEDs
 6  Battery level indicator
 7  Charger
Note: The contents of the box may vary based on the model purchased.



Preparing for use
Attaching the brush head
 1  Align the brush head so the bristles face the front of the handle (Fig. 2).
 2  Firmly press the brush head down on the metal shaft until it stops.
Note: Sonicare brush heads come with easily identifiable icons to identify your 
brush head.



Charging the appliance
 1  Put the plug of the charger in a wall socket.
 2  Place the handle on the charger (Fig. 3).
 , The	battery	level	indicator	flashes	to	indicate	that	the	toothbrush	
is charging (Fig. 4).
Note: It can take up to 48 hours to fully charge the battery, but the Sonicare 
may be used before it is fully charged.



Using the appliance
Brushing instructions 
 1  Wet the bristles and apply a small amount of toothpaste.
 2  Place the toothbrush bristles against the teeth at a slight angle 
towards the gumline (Fig. 5).
 3  Press the power on/off button to switch on the Sonicare.
 4  Apply light pressure to maximise Sonicare’s effectiveness and let 
the Sonicare toothbrush do the brushing for you. Do not scrub.
 5  Gently move the brush head slowly across the teeth in a small back 
and forth motion so the longer bristles reach between the teeth. 
Continue this motion throughout the brushing cycle.
Note: To make sure you brush evenly throughout the mouth, divide the mouth 
into 4 sections using the Quadpacer feature (see chapter ‘Features’).
 6  Brush each section for 30 seconds for a total brushing time of  
2 minutes. Start with section 1 (outside top teeth) and then brush 
section 2 (inside top teeth). Continue with section 3 (outside 
bottom	teeth)	and	finally	brush	section	4	(inside	bottom	teeth)	 
(Fig. 6).
Note:  After you have completed the brushing cycle, you can spend additional 
time brushing the chewing surfaces of your teeth and areas where staining 
occurs. You may also brush your tongue, with the toothbrush switched on or 
off, as you prefer.
The Sonicare is safe to use on:
 - Braces (brush heads may wear out more quickly when used on braces)
 - Dental restorations (fillings, crowns, veneers, implants)
Note: When the Sonicare is used in clinical studies, the handle has to be fully 
charged, set to the high intensity level and the Easy-start feature must be 
deactivated.



Intensity levels
 - Low: 1 LED indicator light  (Fig. 7)
 - Medium: 2 LED indicator lights  (Fig. 8)
 - High: 3 LED indicator lights  (Fig. 9)
Note: To adjust the intensity level, press the power on/off button to let  
your Sonicare cycle through the intensity levels in the following order:  
High, Medium, Low, High etc. Each touch of the button allows you to select 
the next available intensity level.
Battery status (when handle is not on charger)
 - A yellow battery level indicator indicates a low charge. 
 - A green battery level indicator indicates a high charge.
 - The battery level indicator turns off when the battery is in between a 
low and a high charge.
Note: When you hear 3 beeps and the yellow LED of the battery level 
indicator flashes, this means the battery charge is below 10% and the 
toothbrush should be recharged.
Note: When you hear 2 sets of 5 beeps, this means the Sonicare will not 
operate and needs to be recharged.
Note: To keep the battery fully charged at all times, you may keep the 
Sonicare on the charger when not in use.



Features
Quadpacer
 - The Quadpacer is an interval timer that has a short beep and pause 
to remind you to brush the 4 sections of your mouth. The Quadpacer 
feature works at all 3 intensity levels (Fig. 10).



Smartimer
The Smartimer indicates that your brushing cycle is complete when it 
automatically switches off the toothbrush at the end of the brushing cycle.
Dentists recommend brushing at least 2 minutes twice a day. 
Note: After brushing for 1.5 seconds, pressing the power on/off button causes 
the toothbrush to pause. After a pause of 30 seconds, the Smartimer resets.



Easy-start
The Easy-start feature gently increases power over the first 14 brushings 
to let you get used to brushing with the Sonicare.
The Easy-Start feature only works at the High intensity level.
This Sonicare model comes with the Easy-start feature deactivated.
To activate or deactivate the Easy-start feature:
 1  Attach your brush head to the handle.
 2  Place the handle in the plugged-in charger.
 3  Activate or deactivate Easy-start:
 , To activate Easy-start: Press and hold the power on/off button for  
2	seconds.	You	hear	2	beeps	and	the	battery	level	indicator	flashes	
green to indicate that the Easy-start feature has been activated.
 , To deactivate Easy-start: Press and hold the power on/off button 
for 2 seconds. You hear 1 beep and the battery level indicator 
flashes	yellow	to	indicate	that	the	Easy-start	feature	has	been	
deactivated.
Note: Each of the first 14 brushings must be at least 1 minute in length to 
properly move through the Easy-start ramp-up cycle.
Note: Using the Easy-start feature beyond the initial ramp-up period is not 
recommended and reduces Sonicare’s effectiveness in removing plaque.



Cleaning 
Do not clean the brush head, handle or charger in the dishwasher. 



Toothbrush handle
 1  Remove the brush head and rinse the metal shaft area with warm 
water (Fig. 11).
Do not push on the rubber seal on the metal shaft with sharp objects, 
as this may cause damage.
 2  Use a damp cloth to wipe the entire surface of the handle.



Brush head
 1  Rinse the brush head and bristles after each use (Fig. 12).
 2  Remove the brush head from the handle and rinse the brush head 
connection at least once a week with warm water.



Charger
 1  Unplug the charger.
 2  Use a damp cloth to wipe the surface of the charger.



Storage
If you are not going to use the appliance for an extended period of time, 
remove the mains plug from the wall socket. Then clean the appliance and 
store it in a cool and dry place away from direct sunlight.



Replacement
Brush head
Replace Sonicare brush heads every 3 months to achieve optimal results.
Only use genuine Philips Sonicare replacement brush heads that are 
suitable for this model. 



Ordering accessories
To buy accessories or spare parts, visit www.shop.philips.com/
service or go to your Philips dealer. You can also contact the Philips 
Consumer Care Centre in your country (see the worldwide guarantee 
leaflet for contact details). 



Recycling
 - This symbol on a product means that the product is covered by 
European Directive 2012/19/EU (Fig. 13).
 - This symbol means that the product contains a built-in rechargeable battery 
covered by European Directive 2006/66/EC which cannot be disposed of 
with normal household waste. Follow the instructions in section ‘Removing 
the rechargeable battery’ to remove the battery (Fig. 14).
 - Inform yourself about the local separate collection system for 
electrical and electronic products and rechargeable batteries.  
Follow local rules and never dispose of the product and rechargeable 
batteries with normal household waste. Correct disposal of old 
products and rechargeable batteries helps prevent negative 
consequences for the environment and human health.



Removing the rechargeable battery
Please note that this process is not reversible.
To remove the rechargeable battery, you need a small standard 
screwdriver and tape. Observe basic safety precautions when you follow 
the procedure below.
 1  To deplete the rechargeable battery of any charge, remove the 
handle from the charger, turn on the Sonicare and let it operate 
until it stops.  Repeat this step until you can no longer turn on the 



Sonicare.
 2  Insert a small standard screwdriver into the bottom of the handle 
and turn it counter-clockwise to remove the screw. Pull the end 
cap off of the handle (Fig. 15).
 3  Insert the screwdriver between the handle and the internal frame. 
Tilt the screwdriver to loosen the handle (Fig. 16).
 4  Remove the internal frame from the handle.  (Fig. 17)
 5  Remove the rubbers that are on top and below the battery (Fig. 18).
 6  Insert the screwdriver between the battery and the frame.  
Tilt the screwdriver to pop the battery out of the frame (Fig. 19).
 7  Place some tape over the ends of the battery to avoid any  
short-circuiting due to residual energy in the battery (Fig. 20).
The rechargeable battery can now be recycled or disposed of and  
the rest of the product discarded appropriately.



Guarantee and support
If you need information or support, please visit www.philips.com/
support or read the separate worldwide guarantee leaflet. 



Guarantee restrictions
The terms of the international guarantee do not cover the following:
 - Brush heads.
 - Damage caused by use of unauthorised replacement parts.
 - Damage caused by misuse, abuse, neglect, alterations or  
unauthorised repair.
 - Normal wear and tear, including chips, scratches, abrasions, 
discolouration or fading.


